[Music]
anthony pompliano welcome to the show
man absolutely thanks so much for having
me dude i am really excited so there's
something my audience has heard me talk
about this before i feel a moral
obligation to get people to look at
cryptocurrency bitcoin specifically and
there's a famous thing i'm almost
certain you've heard of before which is
poor people spend the middle class
save and then the wealthy invest and
this is what's going on in
cryptocurrency to me seems like the
first time where the average person
whether you're poor whether you're
middle class doesn't matter you can
actually front run the investor
and use whether it's bitcoin or
something else as that investment
vehicle
um
talk to me about the breakdown here in
the u.s of people that invest versus
don't invest yeah so one of the easiest
ways i find to talk about bitcoin is
just talking about the legacy problems
and kind of what the average person does
um and both from uh those that are
successful and those also that are not
successful
and so let's start with some statistics
around just the united states right 45
of americans hold no investable assets
that's so crazy so right what is an
investable asset for people that don't
know what that means a stock a bond uh
cryptocurrency real estate right all the
things that are basically are not cash
that you're buying because you think
that they're going to appreciate in the
future and so really that 45 of folks
are living paycheck to paycheck uh they
keep all of their wealth stored in
dollars in a bank account um they tend
to be um you know obviously not very
well financially um off but also on top
of that uh they tend to actually not be
nearly as educated about how the system
works so there's a
wealth in a quality gap but there's also
a very large education gap and so do you
think they're one and the same
i think that the education gap actually
drives most of the wealth inequality and
really it's because of the basement of
the currency i've made that's
interesting so we'll get to the basement
currency in a second i've made a
statement that i expected to be more
controversial than maybe it's become
which is so i worked in the inner cities
a lot so i've i have seen firsthand up
close intelligence be evenly distributed
so they can process raw data very
quickly like you're hanging out with
them you're like okay you're poor you
come from a long line of poverty and yet
you're incredibly bright like
i am confused now as to why you haven't
you know been able to achieve escape
velocity and get out of here and then
you realize that their frame of
reference the way that they think about
things is so detrimental because your
behaviors ultimately are all that matter
right you can think that bitcoin is the
greatest thing since sliced bread but if
you don't actually buy
any bitcoin then you can't take
advantage of the growth and so
i began to realize that or hypothesized
i should say that
generational poverty is a frame of
reference problem far more than it's a
money problem
and that if you took that same person so
they're born on day one they were born
to parents that have you know lived in
the inner cities forever they've
struggled for generation after
generation and you bring them into a
household where they're going to be
educated around investing and you know
what the the game is that you're talking
about that it's a system it works in
some kind of way the way it's
predictable and it will reward some
behaviors and it will punish other
behaviors and nothing else matters and
if you do that they will come out just
fine and so i was like
wow this really is a knowledge gap
problem
yeah i mean think about if i told you to
go play a game and i said but i'm not
going to tell you the rules
right be pretty hard to play the game at
first at least maybe you figured out
maybe you don't but you're obviously
gonna be much better equipped to play
the game if i explain to you how the
game works and what the rules are and so
if you think of money or finances as a
game uh there's really one key rule that
everyone has to understand which is the
dollars will be worth less in purchasing
power terms over a long period of time
that's not a negative towards the dollar
that's not a positive towards a dollar
it's just that is a fact and we call it
inflation yeah and the system is built
that way and the economic argument for
why it is built that way is because if i
know that uh my dollars are going to
lose purchasing power meaning that today
cost me you know two dollars to buy a
loaf of bread in five years it'll cost
me four dollars to buy a loaf of bread
i'm
financially incentivized to either
invest the money or to spend the money
but holding it is a losing proposition
now that economic theory is predicated
on the fact that everyone knows the
dollars are going to lose value because
what ends up happening is those 45
percent of americans end up not
investing the money or really spending
the money they're trying to save the
money but it is losing value and i
always go back and i think this
generational idea is really
can be extrapolated even further it's
not just folks on the inner city if you
think back you know i'm 33 you're in
your 40s if we go to our parents or our
grandparents for the most part their
financial advice was save right spend
less than you make if you save then you
can make your way to financial security
that was actually true for specifically
around our grandparents generation a
little bit for our parents and then for
us not so much and so the advice that
was passed down was actually predicated
on a situation that no longer exists
because before 1971 there was nowhere
near the debasement of the currency that
there is today because it was tied to
gold
that's a huge piece of it for sure right
which is basically the fact that when we
handed over the power to print
currencies right this is a 50-year
experiment that we're in and you know
again there are some very positive
impacts of being able to print currency
right you essentially are able to
devalue the currency you can pay off
future debt with kind of less valuable
dollars and there's all this economic
theory that really fast i want to ground
this in something i've heard you say
before which i think it was so simple i
was like whoa
you said if i have 100 in my bank
account and i'm i need 150 i can't go in
and edit the database and now i suddenly
have 150 but the government can yes and
i was like whoa like when you say it
like that and it's like literally just
somebody going into a spreadsheet i was
like oh my god and i even do this is
recent so i am i'm very good at making
money and i have historically been very
bad at investing money okay now i've
become obsessed with investing now that
i'm sort of track because i i was just
trying to get as close to my money
buried in the backyard as humanly
possible and anybody thinking to rob me
i don't actually do that so you will
find zero dollars here at my house
um but that was my mental sophistication
around finance i didn't understand it i
didn't want to understand it quite
frankly i'd put a lot of energy into
just getting good at entrepreneurship so
that i could generate whatever wealth
that i wanted
but
i came very late to understanding this
idea that one that the governments can
print more and that in printing more you
make it less scarce and in making it
less scarce you devalue it and i
actually as of maybe eight months ago
thought that when they say print more
money that they were actually printing
more money and so i'm like when they've
got the bag of cash who are they giving
it to you i couldn't understand like i
was so but like if anybody puts any
amount of
credibility into whether they think i'm
intelligent or not to think that a guy
that could build a billion dollar
company
as of eight months ago was imagining
somebody from the government walking
around with like a bag full of cash like
that's how ignorant i was to the system
and that's exactly how people end up
getting held back i think that uh what's
fascinating about this is this is not an
uncommon story right there are plenty of
people on wall street et cetera who
don't understand uh economics uh macro
or micro uh and also just simple
personal finance things right this stuff
is hard and it goes back to there's
nobody teaching it in school and so you
basically have two ways to learn you can
learn by doing kind of trial by fire and
some people figure it out some people
don't or you're lucky enough to have a
parent a friend a mentor somebody else
who sits you down and explains it to you
and i think that's why we're seeing such
an explosion of interest yeah sure the
meme stocks cryptocurrencies it's easy
to mock and make fun of these young
people but these young people are
interested in understanding how does the
market work how does finances work how
does investing work
and so you know if you go back to that
data right we talked about 45 percent of
people have no investable assets the two
stats that just blew me away when i
started to look at this was uh 80 of
millionaires in the united states
inherited zero dollars
so the narrative is interesting everyone
inherits wealth and is just passed down
well 80 of americans inherited nothing
20 inherited something 80 nothing the
second one is that 33 percent of uh
millionaires in america never made more
than a hundred thousand dollars in a
single year
so you start to ask yourself well how
does it that somebody that doesn't make
six figures a year become a millionaire
well they have to be disciplined and
understand personal finance and so it is
possible to do it it's not everyone it's
hard right it's not the uh the easiest
thing to do but it can be done and so as
you start to understand like okay
the education is a huge piece of this
you actually see that the people who are
wealthy some of them could explain to
you why they're doing things they have a
kind of a deep level
and detailed knowledge of
the actions they're taking and the
reason for it there's a whole other
group of people who are wealthy who
couldn't explain any of it to and they
just know that their parents told them
hey buy real estate real estate always
goes up but they don't understand
printing of money they don't understand
quantitative easing interest rate and
none of that stuff matters it was just
they just did the action and so there's
a lot of paths to get to kind of the um
the desired you know area if you will um
but i do think that
bitcoin specifically what it's done for
me and for other people is i have an
economics degree which is crazy because
i didn't learn anything it was only once
i started actually invest money that i
started to really get the education so i
always say you know bitcoin taught me
economics it taught me personal finance
it's taught me social psychology you
know all these different things
but there's an element of just
understanding hey invest because at this
point given the inflation and the
monetary debasement it is impossible
literally impossible in america to get a
financial security position
by saving
it's just they're debasing the currency
38 of all dollars in circulation were
printed in the last 18 months that's
insane
that's insane like when you think that
we're over 200 years old as a country
that's really bananas 38 in the last 18
months whoa
so now as i think about so i'm i'm
trying it's funny if people go back and
watch all my interviews they see me from
the time that um
this all kicked off with kovid they see
me grasping at straws trying to help the
sort of average person find a way
through this because i really started to
panic isn't the right word but it's like
i was
deeply at unease
because i knew who was gonna get pounded
the hardest by what was happening and it
was like look i was gonna be fine
but
a lot of people that i know care about
love we're not going to make it through
this thing and so i started bringing on
because of the reach of my show i was
getting on like the biggest macro
investors in the world but because i
didn't understand finance i didn't know
that that was the wrong person to go and
talk to because they can influence
countries and they can help huge hedge
funds but they don't know how to talk to
the average everyday investor
and one of my employees kept haranguing
me to look at cryptocurrency and bitcoin
and i was like david i just don't have
any interest in investing it's not my
thing like i know how to make money and
then nfts came along and i realized that
was going to be the future of my
business so i went all in and like you
started learning all this stuff from
investing in crypto i had to learn about
the blockchain by to understand nfts to
create content there that was
interesting and compelling and as i
learned about that i was able to get the
first principles because now i
understood how the blockchain worked
which led me to what's different about
fiat currency to cryptocurrency
and then all of a sudden you're like
wait a minute are you [__] kidding
this is what's going on like they can
just print money at will that's insane
that also when you start thinking about
so one thing that's always enraged me
and this sends me back to my days when i
was young and broke and i would have
let's say 19 in my bank account not
joking and they won't let you take it
out because there's a minimum that you
have to have in your account or there's
like 20 minimum at the atm and so i'm
like hold on i'm not going to be able to
go
like get a meal right now because of
banking rules so i've developed this
just like internal rage over banks
acting like my money is their money
and so now like seeing how it's hard to
get your wallet set up admittedly but
once you like get on the rails of
cryptocurrency of how
easy it is
and so that's really been eye opening
and game changing
now i think we have to get to all right
you have to get to those first
principles to form a thesis
and then you can invest based on a
thesis so i want to talk about the
thesis around bitcoin we'll stay
specific to that because i know would
you do you call yourself a bitcoin maxi
no so i think there's um a separation
between there's monetary component of
this and then there's like a technology
or like a corporate component of it the
monetary part you have to be a
maximalist right you're a fiat
maximalist if you're a u.s citizen you
get paid in dollars you save in dollars
you invest in dollar denominated assets
you pay your taxes in dollars so you're
a fiat u.s dollar maximalist
when it comes to monetary assets
everyone in the world is a maximalist
because that is what you denominate your
wealth in right very very rarely does
somebody say hey 50 is in this currency
50 is in this currency and so from a
monetary standpoint definitely a bitcoin
maximalist because i think bitcoin is
the only one that has an opportunity to
actually um kind of ascend to global
reserve status and end up being the
superior uh monetary form
but when it looks at the technology i
think that there's going to be massive
competition on that so if you look at
the technology side of it where you're
not talking about monetary asset you're
actually talking about a technology
asset
it would be like saying you're an ios
maximalist or you're uh you know i don't
know python maximal it's right depending
on the language or the platform or
whatever so i think that you've got to
be able to separate out and say you know
bitcoin is competing with uh fiat
currencies for store value medium of
exchange etc and really fast fiat just
means it's government-backed just
government-backed and and basically they
control it so the the key definitions
here are a fiat currency versus let's
call it sound money all sound money is
basically something outside of the
system and something that people can't
create more of so gold is a analog
version of soundbytes a physical form of
sound money created by stars exploding
just i mean when i heard that i was like
god yeah that really is an interesting
way to think about why it's scarce yeah
and bitcoin is a digital form of sound
money and so you can compare the sound
money to the fiat money um and you know
it becomes pretty clear pretty quickly
to people it's like okay one is uh
completely abundant and can be created
at will 38 has been created in the last
18 months versus one that nobody can
create more of well i don't need to know
much else other than that to know which
one's gonna end up being more valuable
and so if we look over the last 12 years
or so bitcoin's purchasing power and all
purchasing power means is how much does
it cost to buy you know a good um the
purchasing power has appreciated it's
increased so all of the expenses around
you all the the physical items that you
buy have gotten cheaper and cheaper
so it used to cost me one bitcoin to buy
a loaf of bread now it might cost me
0.0001 bitcoin to buy a bread okay
that's pretty interesting the dollar is
the opposite right it cost me more
dollars to buy the bread so everything's
getting more expensive around me and so
ultimately hold on hold on
like that's
that's so basic and so
game changing to understand so you've
done a mental switch where you now
denominate emotionally in bitcoin aka
satoshis
and
i haven't yet so as i see the price
fluctuate on bitcoin or whatever i get
excited well the funny thing is i get
excited in either direction when it goes
up i'm like texting my wife yo in the
last like 24 hours we just made and
she's like you have got to be kidding i
mean it's
crazy yes now when it goes down i'm
texting her like yo we're going in hard
like we're buying this dip so but it's
really really interesting do you mind
saying again
the cost of loaf of bread compared to
dollar versus big so if i denominate my
life in dollars and let's say i buy a
loaf of bread today and it's two dollars
five or ten years from now that loaf of
bread may cost me three four five
dollars depending on the rate of
inflation if i denominate my life in
bitcoin and today let's say that it cost
me one bitcoin for a loaf of bread in
the future it will cost me less than one
bitcoin so it'll actually become cheaper
for me to buy because every asset when
you think of price
it's denominated in a currency so a
stock right when i when i ask you what
is amazon's stock price you're telling
me one amazon share over how many us
dollars and that's how we get to the
actual value and so when you start to
think about that
look at the stock market the stock
market from 1971 to today is up and to
the right it's a perfect 45 degree angle
oh god i know you're about to say when
you denominate it in gold it's down
since 1971. if you denominated in
bitcoin since 2009 uh 2010 it has
crashed aggressively bitcoin has been
the best performing asset but that's
because it's denominated in dollars and
so ultimately what we're watching is
we're watching an entire generation of
people wake up to this fiat currency
kind of fiasco um and there's a famous
uh i think it's henry ford quote where
he said you know if people understood
how money worked there would be riots in
the street before morning
and it's simply against respect to that
education gap and so the 55 of people
hold investable assets whether they
understand why or not they're actually
benefiting from this
and so it's important to remember that i
don't think there are um
nefarious or malicious intentions or you
know let's screw people at the bottom of
the totem pole in fact sometimes it's
actually the exact opposite uh but the
system is working as designed it's a
feature not a bug and the reason why
that's important to understand is
because
the system is not going to change right
you and i are not going to be able to
convince anybody to do anything
different they're going to do what
they're going to do because that's the
way the system is built
but what you can do is you can change
the way that you're positioned so you
have a choice i can either suffer at the
hands of this system
or i can flip around the other side of
the table and i can benefit from the
system
every single rich person understands how
to benefit from the system
hold assets not a currency don't hold
the dollar instead hold the assets
because one thing it's to hold an asset
that you have a reasonable belief is
going to go up in value over time and
one thing i want to go back to so you
said all right your the cost of the loaf
of bread is going to take less and less
of the bitcoin that you own
that's a prognostication right you're
hoping that that is true but one thing i
want to point out is the things that
you're looking at into the future and
saying that it the the bread will cost
more dollars is backed historically so
it's simply you looking backwards and
then carrying that out forwards and the
same is true of bitcoin is that you're
looking at the historical performance
and projecting it forward it's not like
you're just making that up and being
hopeful
and
that is where i think this starts to be
important is one to to recognize
everybody has to do their own research
you have to figure this out for yourself
you want to understand it to the point
where you're not thinking an analogy
you're thinking from first principles so
you understand how the game works you're
you know emotionally writing in the
streets as henry ford predicted um
but yeah i think that that that's an
important thing for people to understand
this isn't hopium
this is
looking at the historical performance
and in fact one of my favorite
statistics and and strike me down if
this is inaccurate but that bitcoin and
this i got from raoul paul that bitcoin
is the fastest adopted technology in all
of human history
yeah it depends on how you count but for
sure um and remember price right is kind
of the best indicator of
adoption if you have a fixed supply
asset and demand for something or
adoption for something goes up the price
has to continue to move upwards right
just more and more people want this
scarce asset and so the price goes up
bitcoin was the best performing asset
over the last decade now all people talk
about is the volatility
well volatility actually and this is
like where you get a little bit more in
the weeds uh can be very good for
portfolio so there's a um this data
because you have potential massive
upside
yeah so there's two kind of ways to
think about volatility we think of
volatility when it's talked about in the
mainstream media as a negative thing
right now it's volatile it's volatile
well if something goes up in value it's
volatile to the upside if it goes down
in price then it's volatile to the
downside so volatility isn't good or bad
it's just is it going in your direction
or not right if you're short an asset
and the asset goes up in price you hate
volatility right because you wanted to
go the other way so
volatility being not good or bad is
important because you want it to
actually be volatile if it's going in
your direction the second thing is i
think that this data may be i think it's
2015 to 2020 and don't quote me exactly
on the dates but um there's a five-year
period where if you invested in a 60-40
global portfolio 60 stocks 40 bonds you
got a seven point two percent annualized
return for five years it's about average
where we've seen it over the last few
decades
if you had taken half a percent from
stocks and half a percent from bonds so
you had a one percent allocation to
bitcoin
39.5 to bonds and 59.5 to stocks
you would have taken that 7.2 per year
and increased it to 9.2 so a 200 basis
point increase in your annualized return
if that one percent allocation of
bitcoin had gone to zero you lost all
the money you would have only gone from
seven point two percent to seven percent
so it's about a two hundred basis point
or two percent upside for a 0.2 or a 20
basis point downside so 10 to 1
during that five-year period now the
reason why i say that is one percent of
a portfolio is not a lot of money for
most people that's kind of a speculative
type investment
but because this is so volatile because
it has the ability to appreciate so
aggressively like you talked about when
it when uh lots of people are getting
excited et cetera is it can have a
really profound positive impact on a
portfolio
and still you only have exposure of one
percent and so we just haven't seen that
many asymmetric assets like this before
uh available you know kind of in a
liquid market for people to go buy and
what i think ends up happening is people
come in because of the price they're
like oh my god i'm gonna get rich i did
this is amazing this is like the
greatest thing ever it goes up in price
over time whatever
but then what happens is as my friend
marty ben always talks about he's like
you know you come for the money
but you stay for the money and you came
for profits
but you stay because you start to
understand fiat currencies economics
personal finance et cetera you start to
realize wait a minute i have to do
something i can't sit with cash
and so it's just a very unique asset
that we're all kind of living through
global adoption right we've gone from
the creation of an asset 12 years ago to
now there's a nation state that has
bought bitcoin
i don't think anyone you know 10 12
years ago thought that a nation state
would buy bitcoin this quickly and so
you going back to raul's point
you're building all of this on top of
the internet
and so the internet adoption
happened on top of the telephone lines
and kind of the connectivity we had so
it had a certain rate limiter to it it
could only grow as fast as we had you
know kind of communication
infrastructure
now when this gets built
it's being built on top of the internet
so look at what is the total internet
penetration globally well that's the
rate limiter for how fast this can grow
and i don't think we probably talk about
it enough but there was immense work
done in places like south and central
america countries in africa uh you know
places like india etc uh china to really
drive
uh internet infrastructure over the last
15 years right everyone from the
google's facebook's amazons of the world
to kind of the traditional internet
providers all spent billions and
billions of dollars getting uh all that
infrastructure installed and now here
comes comes along with technology that
is literally just going to ride the
coattails of that internet
infrastructure and get adoption and so
that's where you see countries like
nigeria
and others that you wouldn't think of
being you know super ford you know uh
kind of thinking on technology they're
actually some of the highest penetration
and adoption they have the macroeconomic
problems of the currency and they're
watching their currencies get devalued
they're watching the dire financial
position they're in
and they have the internet
infrastructure now and so they're not
tied to a legacy infrastructure
financially so what do they do they leap
forward a developed country and i think
el salvador's got a shot to do that i
think nigeria is going to do that
and so we're just watching you know a
tale as old as time this has happened
over and over and over again with
technology trends it just so happens
that now it's coming for finance and
it's a lot of powerful influential
people who don't like that yeah
all right so i want to leave some
breadcrumbs for people that maybe are in
my position eight or nine months ago
they have no idea this is so dizzying to
them and if they've made it to this
point i'm very impressed because they're
investing in their future but now just a
few breadcrumbs so
going back to you if you don't
understand the first principles of
something what i'll often refer to as
the physics of the situation so you're
you're as low as you can go there's
you're at the sort of axiomatic state
where you just you at some point have to
say i believe these things to be true
nobody knows sort of anything below that
so okay we're not reasoning from analogy
anymore we're getting to the point where
we understand what fiat money is its
pluses its minuses we understand what
cryptocurrency is bitcoin specifically
its pluses its minuses and now we can
begin to think for ourselves to solve
novel problems because we're thinking
from first principles
from that they're going to form a thesis
and i'll lay out my thesis be great for
you to lay out yours and i'll explain
why i'm not afraid of price volatility
why in fact i get excited in either
direction when you know when it's going
up i'm like oh my god i'm getting richer
this is amazing when it's going down i'm
like i can buy more
now the reason that i want to buy more
is the following i believe this is one
of my
axiomatic statements so there's nothing
below this one
i believe it to be true that technology
is a one-way street that we will never
go backwards we will never unwind the
internet we will never be a less digital
creature we will only be more and things
like neurolink are going to become real
and i actually and i don't want to lose
people on this i think in a
very far distant future so this is not
in the next 20 or 30 years you know
maybe this is 100 years maybe it's 300
but there are people already that have
cochlear implants that give them back
hearing we're working on
implants into the eye they give people
back vision so it'll start with
correcting things but we will ultimately
as ourselves become really
tied physically to technology so
i believe that everything will
ultimately get digitized so what we're
living through right now is a really
fascinating moment where art is now
being digitized money is being digitized
and those two i live at the intersection
of art collectibles and money and and
watching those go digitized and watching
for anybody that wonders if this if the
human mind is just ever going to be into
these things
in the way that they are physical things
i will just say this that uh in august
of 2021
open c did 3 billion in revenue on
purely digital goods digital art digital
collectibles all of it and that blew
them past etsy at like day 16 of the
month or something they went past i mean
it's just absolutely insane to see how
much money is pouring into the system i
think this is only 200 000 wallets so
200 000 people driving three billion
dollars worth of revenue all on digital
goods that have no physical tangible
thing in in out in the world now there's
utility it's beyond the scope of what
we're saying now so okay my thesis the
world's only going digital i have all
these kind of proof points around it now
one of the things that's going digital
is money
bitcoin in particular has a really
fascinating feature which makes it what
you call sound money and that feature is
programmatic
it can only ever produce 21 million of
these units unlike gold which for me and
i don't know if you'll agree with this
my mind got wrapped around it
immediately when it was like bitcoin is
digital gold because i understood what
gold was meant to be i was never going
to carry it around and shave some off to
buy a loaf of bread like it's a thing
that i store somewhere else that we all
agree and yes it only has value in that
we agree it has value
it only can be created when stars
explode and that rains down on the
planet and gets embedded into you know
the bedrock of
you know the earth and so we have to go
and dig it out but we dig it out at a
rate roughly two percent a year as
economic incentives go up we dig out
more and so there is some big question
around well if there was enough
incentive could you devalue that
more by discovering that there are
actually harder to reach
deposits of gold okay so i get that it's
capped there's only 21 million units
therefore as long as we all agree that
that thing has value it becomes sound
money as you say because there can never
be any more of it
so the more i can get now in this sort
of early phase where it's sort of a
secret in plain sight and which is how i
feel every time i buy it i'm like why
are people selling me this like this is
crazy because i have sold exactly zero
satoshis so i keep having a number and
i'm like i can't wait till i have you
know more than this and more than this
um
and
because my thesis is technology is
one-way street we will never go
backwards money as a value is going
digital the number one front-runner is
bitcoin
when the price goes down it's better for
me because i can buy in
and there will come a day i think where
the predominant trajectory even in the
relatively short term will just be up up
so
it doesn't make sense to even get
excited as the price goes up because
it's just almost sad that i can't buy in
more at that you know the earlier rate
and so that's my thesis and why i
wouldn't sell because it becomes like
michael saylor says
it's like buying a plot of land in
manhattan because you're never going to
make more manhattan and so that's only
going to go up in value over time which
of course is exactly what happened to
real estate in manhattan and you can
borrow against it etc okay so what's
your thesis
it really just comes down to this idea
of
the purchasing power increases versus
the purchasing power of the dollar
decreasing and ultimately what i think
ends up being really important for the
conversation is there's a financial
component which we're talking about now
right is uh i want to store the value uh
of my time right and i think this is
like a really really key component of
the financial conversation is
all money is at the end of the day is a
unit of time and this is kind of a crazy
concept until you think about
why do you receive money
because you or somebody you employ or an
asset you built or some thing
is exchanging time for money
and so ultimately if you have lots of
money you end up having leverage on your
time if you don't have lots of money you
have to spend time to get dollars and so
money is just a unit of time
and so when i think about that
if i expend let's say an hour of work
today and i get paid ten dollars an hour
and then you tell me that i took that
unit of time i put in my bank account
and then in the future i would have to
work two hours to get that same ten
dollars
well that actually doesn't feel that
great right in terms of it it feels like
i'm i can't keep up i've got i only have
so much time in a day and i'm constantly
falling behind but if instead you said
to me hey if you work an hour you get
ten dollars and then you put that money
in a
form of an asset that is only going to
appreciate its purchasing power
then wait a minute in the future i
actually don't have to go work
for three or four hours because now i
have that ten dollars that's saved from
the time i originally spent and so this
idea of like a unit of time becomes
really fascinating because what are rich
people understand
don't get in the game of trading your
personal time directly for hours right
they either employ other people or they
own assets that deliver them some sort
of financial return and so when you look
at bitcoin specifically
it has a financial component that is
unavailable in other assets it is
systematically built to continue to
protect your purchasing power and
protect could also just be going
sideways right just it doesn't degrade
it happens to be going up a lot now
because it's being repriced by the world
but at some point it'll reach some
stable value and it'll kind of just go
sideways and it'll protect that
purchasing power really important
concept
the second is this idea of sovereignty
so like you talked about putting that 19
in the bank and you couldn't get it out
huge problem right a lot of people don't
know um i i've got a friend uh mark
gusco who talks all the time about like
when you put money into a bank account
it's not your money anymore that's crazy
right it's an iou they're supposed to
give it back to you
but we've seen and very kind of outlier
events like in cyprus in 2013 i think it
was where they basically come in and the
government says you know what if you
have a hundred dollars in the bank we're
taking ten dollars ten percent tax
across the board
well how can they take my money because
it's not your money right and so you you
end up not understanding some of that
and so this idea of sovereignty the
ability to hold your assets yourself
right you talked about you don't
actually have money buried in the
backyard right that would make you a
sovereign individual it also puts you at
a lot of security risk right somebody
could come here and dig it up and
harm you etc with bitcoin what it allows
for is uh this sovereignty you can
actually hold on to it nobody else is
holding it for you you get to custody
the asset and so in the developed world
we don't think a lot about this right we
just i put money in the bank i go the
atm i can take it out i can swipe a card
you know no problem
in the developing world this is a huge
problem right if all of a sudden i need
to get up and i need to flee venezuela
for example well i have to get on a
train a plane a boat or walk and at
every single one of the ports airports
train stations or border crossings what
are they doing they're confiscating
people's wealth and so there's you know
report after report after report over
the last few years where somebody went
to the airport and they had physical
gold in their suitcase and and the uh
you know government or the military took
it from them
well you don't have sovereignty over the
asset because you don't have the
security of it and so bitcoin having
this cryptographic uh kind of security
to it ends up being really really
important on a global basis maybe not so
much in the united states today but
globally really important and the last
thing is uh there's this censorship
resistance with the payment network and
so one of the things that again in the
developed world we don't think a lot
about is if i want to send you money i
basically have too many options right i
can hand you physical cash i can venmo
you uh i once asked my youngest brother
uh how he sends money to his friends he
said uber i said how do you send money
on uber he was well i split rides with
them at the end of the ride right so
there's all these ways that we don't
think that we send value back and forth
to each other uh in the developed world
well what happens if the government said
you can't send tom money
and
sometimes they do that where they'll say
you know tom's a criminal you're not
allowed to do financial transactions
with him i think generally as a society
we say there's got to be some rule of
law we agree bad people shouldn't be
able to launder money or you know commit
crimes with money et cetera
but what happens if it goes from time to
criminal to
tom didn't work out today and tom's been
a bad boy in our society and so now all
of a sudden pomp you can't send tom any
money
well what do we do then
because all of the technology that we
use would be
exposed to that threat
and so this idea of censorship
resistance while i don't think most
people around the world today are
worried about their government saying
tom can't receive money because he
didn't work out today
what we are worried about is well what
happens when all of a sudden a
um a dictatorship says to their citizens
you're not going to be able to get your
capital out right can i'm actually a
little more worried maybe than you are
so
i am not a very controversial person by
nature but watching some of the
controversial people get shut down where
like stripe is like we won't even
process your payment account
there are ways to really [__] with
people
now here in america like it gets a
little scary i i usually don't go too
far down this rabbit hole only because
uh you end up in this weird world where
everyone becomes a conspiracy theorist
real quick but um you know in the last
18 months a lot of the conspiracy
theorists were just early right they
ended up being right about a lot of
things and
it's unfortunate uh it's not always that
um situation but i do think that we are
headed towards a world where we're
understanding the more power that you
give to governments
the more that they encroach on personal
freedoms individual liberties et cetera
and the most extreme examples everyone
can identify and i think generally in
the developed world we point our finger
and shake it and say you know they
shouldn't do that right um
but when you look here in the u.s it's
always that that could never happen here
and i don't think that there's people
who
fundamentally believe that it's going to
happen tomorrow
because it's usually this like slow
degradation of freedom
but if all of a sudden they shut people
down from stripe okay
well there was just a guy who was in
politics who chase bank shut down his
account for reputation risk
this isn't somebody who was you know out
saying crazy conspiracy theorists
whatever definitely politically
controversial whatever but i think if
you and i had to sit down and make a
list of all the people who get you know
financially censored or censored off
social media it's usually kind of the
fringes of society right it's the people
who
if i went home and i talked to my mom
she'd be like
you know that person's a little crazy
right
these are people who are just involved
in politics and so i think that at some
point you have to start to ask yourself
do i want to risk even being exposed to
a system where it could happen it's not
saying it's going to happen it's not
saying i have some prediction as to when
it happens
it's just
why even subject yourself to that risk
and i think it goes back to this
conversation around the best investors
in the world
for the most part are actually not
very risk tolerant they don't want to go
and take immense risk almost never will
you see one of the best investors in the
world say i'm going to take a hundred
percent of all of my investable assets
and i'm putting on this one stock cross
my fingers and hope it works right that
just doesn't happen
instead they think a lot about risk
mitigation they try to figure out what
are the ways that i can basically make
investment decisions where there's lots
of upside and there's very little
downside and so i think that as a
society we're learning now
that's probably the pretty good way to
think right it's a pretty good way to
kind of position your life and so if
you're a content creator don't go all in
on only one platform why you have
platform risk right build two or three
different platforms if you're a citizen
with your financial life don't go all in
on one bank or don't go all in on one
type of asset have some sort of
durability to it
and so
in the u.s i don't think we worry so
much about censorship
but in some crazy way what is a sanction
the united states government runs around
the world sanctioning countries
and they have reasons for doing it in
some cases i think people would agree
with them in some cases people won't
agree with them i'm not here to debate
should we do it should we not but the
word sanction ends up being
a marketing term
censorship would sound a lot worse hey
we're going to censor this country
there's a um a comedian
and i wish i could remember who it is i
want to say it's chris rock has a whole
segment
around the iraq and afghanistan war and
he said uh the word insurgent was the
greatest creation ever because i don't
know any insurgents do you no all right
kill them all right because but if we'd
said hey we're fighting humans
also hold on a second what did they do
are they good people are they but you
know there'd be questions or you would
think differently about it but when you
use a terminology that is somewhat
clinical in nature and and isn't
something that's part of the everyday
vernacular
you just think differently about it
right and it's just human nature and so
i think that uh sanctions is another one
that kind of falls in that of oh we're
sanctioning these bad people
sanction them right like
we're censoring people well who are you
censoring oh we're cutting off an entire
country's access the global financial
system
all of them or just the bad people right
everyday citizen they get cut off too oh
well maybe they don't get cut off but
maybe there's negative ramifications for
them a lot of nuance in the world right
and so i think that ultimately we're
moving more towards a world where
anybody can use this payment system
which at first sounds
a little scary to people because that
means that the bad people will use it
too
but who's the good person who's the bad
person
well who gets to decide
and i don't think anyone wants to
encourage terrorist financing money
laundering criminal behavior or any of
that stuff
but the one benefit that this payment
system has on top of sovereignty and
censorship resistant is that it's done
on a public ledger
it would be like criminals basically
saying hey you know what we're going to
do
we're going to go and we're going to do
crimes and then we're going to literally
write down every transaction we have and
we're going to put it on a website on
the internet
and anyone can come look at it
a lot of criminals say i probably don't
want to do that
right i actually want to use that bag of
cash that no one knows about and i'm
going to use physical dollars to
facilitate this are there stats around
how much sort of nefarious stuff is
going on with bitcoin versus us dollar
so um the stats that i know off top my
head is over two trillion dollars of uh
fiat currency are just money laundering
every year used for illicit purposes
which is about the size of the entire
crypto industry not just bitcoin but the
entire crypto industry right so it's a
very big number um some of that is uh
simple things like uh terrorist
financing and then you're you know
literally bringing a bag of cash or
whatever but a lot of it also is uh
major banks who end up being caught up
in money laundering situations etc and
i'm always careful i think it's very
easy to kind of point your finger at
banks and say you know these are all bad
people whatever
i tend to think of it more as uh folks
with good intentions they're trying to
do the best that they can um are there
situations where they definitely know
they're doing it of course
but if you had to monitor millions of
transactions a day going through your
bank
they do a better job than i would right
right so
there's again nuance there um so so
that's the fiat system and then uh in
the bitcoin world so not all crypto but
in bitcoin specifically uh the latest
stats that i've seen is there's a report
out that says 0.4
so less than half a percent of all
transactions are used for illicit or
nefarious purposes um and then there was
also a former cia director who came out
and basically published a whole report i
don't remember what exact number he came
up but is pretty much in line you know
definitely less than one percent
and so uh if you talk to law enforcement
they say all the time they're like if
somebody commits a crime we want their
fingers on a keyboard
why there's a digital trail it's much
easier to track them it's much easier to
figure this stuff out and so i think
what we've seen is just criminals uh in
the early days of 2009 10 11 12 even
maybe 13 14.
oh there's a suit anonymous currency
that no one knows about like i'm gonna
go do all this crazy stuff with it
well now that we're in 2021 people
realize oh wait a minute i just used
this public you know ledger that
probably wasn't the smartest idea
um but i think that it's important
actually that the criminals and bad
actors adopted it first because that is
the adoption cycle that every great
technology takes whether it's mobile
phones beepers the internet etc there's
a constant cat and mouse game between
law enforcement and bad actors and so
what are bad actors constantly doing
they're looking for new innovative ways
to use technology to
get away from or obscure law enforcement
from catching them and so
criminals are actually usually the first
adopters of new technology which again
doesn't make people feel good but if you
go back and you look it's a historical
pattern
and so the fact that they were first and
then we got kind of the first adopters
from a technology standpoint and then we
started to get more of the mainstream
and now it's estimated that more than a
hundred million people globally use this
stuff
it's kind of like goes back to you is
that high already oh yeah i mean
coinbase alone uh i think they report
now that they've got uh if you remember
the number correctly it's like 58
million you registered users just one
company and they're not even the biggest
exchange right
in the month of july uh 1.2 million new
users
came onto the bitcoin blockchain so not
coinbase not any exchange or wallet the
actual blockchain itself you can see on
chain new entities uh and 1.2 million
new entities came online which is the
fastest it's ever grown in a single
month
and so what you have is you have a fixed
supply asset
then now you've got the most number of
entities ever joining in a month
of course the price goes up right fixed
by asset demand goes up unless you think
that supply demand economics are
invalidated you know
the price has to move to accommodate
everyone and so it's just um
just a fascinating asset that i think
ultimately um
those that embrace it early will end up
benefiting from and a lot of times as i
kind of go down this path talking about
the criminal behavior and you talk about
the public ledger you talk about the
adoption
people get uneasy they don't like change
right humans hate change
but just like the internet right imagine
if we had sat here in the united states
and we had said
this internet thing is kind of crazy
it's a decentralized open thing anyone
that has an internet connection can kind
of join and participate and get
information
yeah do all this stuff
you know what
i don't think the us should participate
you know why
china china is going to benefit and
north korea is going to use the internet
too and iran those bad people they're
going to use the internet as well so the
us we're going to set this one out
well people did do that north korea did
that and north korea would suck to live
in
right it's just they cut their people
off from a very important technology and
so when you think about that from an
open payment system right
the idea of an open payment system is so
foreign to us because the system that we
live in
but anyone in the world can plug into
this open system and send value to
anyone else without asking permission
if we sit here and we say you know what
we shouldn't participate because there's
some other country or some other
organization that's going to also
benefit from it we're actually likely to
be the ones that get hurt the most by
those decisions instead we should do
what we do with the internet
internet's going to be a thing the
united states is going to be the leader
in the internet we're going to benefit
more than anybody else we're going to
use this new technology to our benefit
first what would that look like
i think the easiest thing to start with
is to use the payment rails so
bitcoin as an asset when people hear
bitcoin um there's a lot of confusion
because uh the asset the thing that you
hold the the one of the 21 million units
uh think of that as like a dollar bill
right in terms of it's a unit of
currency
bitcoin the network is the payment rails
itself so more of like a visa so i send
dollars across visa's network right in
the legacy system here what i do is i
send bitcoin across the bitcoin network
so it gets a little confusing um the the
crypto community has never claimed to be
great marketers but great technologists
and so
bitcoin the network ends up allowing
anyone to use it so i'll give you a
perfect example i invested in a company
called strike and what strike allows you
to do is send any currency to anyone
else in the world
completely for free
instantaneously
and they do it without going through any
banks
now that sounds like a utopia right how
how the hell do you do that
what it allows you to do is let's say
that i have dollars in my bank or my
account and you want euros you live in
europe
i send twenty dollars to you and my
twenty dollars ends up arriving to you a
twenty dollar equivalent in euros but
happen instantaneously and nearly for
free
how what they're actually doing is
they're taking the dollars they're
converting it to bitcoin they're sending
the bitcoin across the lightning network
and then they convert it back into euros
now the reason why that's so fascinating
is if i now can send any currency
whether it's dollars euros bitcoin
name your currency across rails that
allow for instantaneous settlement and
near zero if not zero fees
all of a sudden i don't have to send
large amounts your bank wouldn't let you
take 20 out of the bank right or 19
because you needed 20.
well i can't go wire somebody five
dollars
right if i went to the bank i said i
want to send a wire to tom in europe for
five dollars i said well the minimum is
whatever you got to pay a 25 30 fee all
this stuff okay
if i wanted to venmo you
but you're not on venmo
venmo doesn't communicate with revolut
or sofi or
cash app or name your payment system
it's a closed network
so now what ends up happening is strike
can say hey anyone with an account
can send money to anyone else plugged
into this system
tom has tom's lightning app right and
you start signing up users people from
strike can send money to people on tom's
lightning app why it's because it's an
open payment system it's an open
standard and so now all of a sudden you
can also not only send to anyone through
that censorship resistance component but
you also don't have to send large
amounts so now what i can do is i can
send you a penny
i send you 10 cents
send you five cents i can send you a
dollar
instantaneously and completely for free
and so when i do that it unlocks all
kinds of new use cases for payments on
the internet right
what if i don't want to buy the easiest
example is these like media
subscriptions i don't want to spend 30
bucks a month for a media subscription
but i really want to read this one
article i'll pay 10 cents for it
and what if i can just simply do that
automatically
rather than have the 30 thing they
actually probably will make more money
doing that than forcing people into the
monthly subscription this is where the
more you're in the nft world you begin
to realize like the ultimate fantasy for
anybody selling anything is to have you
just connect your wallet
and then it's especially if you still in
your own mind sort of denominate in
dollars it's like oh yeah i've got these
you know ethereum coins whatever they
are and
i can click this and it's only .04 you
know whatever ethan's like oh that
doesn't sound so bad and you just you
end up buying way more than you would it
is so effortless the wanting to having
is like
so quick and so to your point
the number of times i've gone to read an
article and i'm like you've got to be
kidding like even the thought of having
to open an account and put in my credit
card no way so even if i could get that
article for 10 cents knowing the sort of
traditional hoops i'd have to go through
i'm not i'm not typing my name or any of
that [__] but now with a metamask
wallet you go literally it prompts you
connect you hit connect and then it's
like you want to buy this yes two clicks
and now you're reading the article for
10 cents i mean that i'd never thought
of that but that would be
it will increase spending
tenfold 20-fold be crazy i i uh uh when
we agreed that we were going to do this
i think it was going to be more of a
conversation but i'm going to pull you
down the rabbit hole because i can tell
you're intellectually interested in this
stuff
i'll give you another use case that i
think will have a profound economic
impact globally
historically an employee gets paid every
two weeks
in the
four largest banks uh this this data
comes from i think 2019.
they made eight billion dollars
in overdraft fees
so an overdraft means that they tried to
debit your account
and you didn't have any money in there
yeah so the four largest banks made
eight billion dollars from people that
didn't have any money
there's all kinds of ethical and
questions and whatever
part of the problem is when you start to
unlock this and look into it is uh uh
the folks at a bridge another company
invested in um
they went and did a whole deep dive why
are these people why don't they have
money what is it it's usually not
because they don't have money it's
because they get paid every two weeks so
i get paid on the 1st and the 15th
on the 10th i won't grow grocery
shopping my car payment's on the 11th my
netflix hits on the 12th oh i made a
purchase on the 13th overdraft yep
no real-time updates by the way so you
don't even know where your account is
you think you're fine like trying to
track all the mental math or write it
down get out of here
so when i get paid on the 15th what do i
do i pay for the things that i need and
then i just have budgeted in an
overdraft fee
and
my 35 overdraft fee every month
adds up and so does all the other
millions of americans and ends up being
8 billion top four companies oh my god
now
why can't we pay people at the end of
every day
why when you leave work today don't you
get paid why does it only once
you know or twice a month what's a
technology problem
right and sure there are economic
reasons why the company wants to hold
the money rather than give it to you and
they earn interest or whatever right
but it's mainly a technology problem
because there's two components one is
how do i actually pay you every day what
am i gonna why am i running payroll
every day like that's pretty crazy right
that seems inefficient
and two how do i keep track of it how do
i do the accounting around well did tom
get paid did he actually get it okay he
got it all right who didn't get paid
today who didn't come into work okay we
don't pay them whatever
so
when you bring the cost of sending small
amounts of money to zero
and you do it in a frictionless
censorship resistant way
you get what you call streaming payments
so kind of the most economic prosperity
is now i can pay every one of my
employees at the end of every day
well if i do that
how much better financial position are
they going to be in just that alone
would drastically lift millions of
people around the world into a better
financial position just pay people at
the end of every day and there's
companies that are working on this some
of them are using crypto rails some of
them are trying to do other stuff
whatever
but that when you drop the technology
cost to zero to send money is
life-changing for you this is why i want
people to understand what's going on in
cryptocurrency what's going on in the
blockchain in general it is a technology
money happens to be one of the things
riding on the back of the technology in
fact this is one of the things we have
to talk about i'll finish that point
then i want to get to that
is all right this is a technology which
means i'm i have opened not me of course
but the the creators of which have
opened up this toolkit and now what
people do with the toolkit just like
when i first got on the internet and i
remember in 1994
hearing the word email for the first
time and i was like what the [__] is
that and you go from what's that to i
live i'm one my business is almost
entirely online two most of the things
that i purchase are online
especially now in the middle of pandemic
it's like most of my social interactions
are online like i could never have
predicted that that's where this is
going to go as bandwidth gets bigger and
bigger as network effects you know take
and more and more people are on it
absolutely crazy and so
now it becomes a question of
what is the sort of underlying thing
that makes this all magical the the
whole notion of distributed
technology like what does it mean to be
decentralized
the whole idea around decentralization
is essentially no one person or
organization controls the system that's
it right if you think of centralization
it's important to kind of recognize why
is centralization important or why is it
been effective right if
amazon wants to
be built or we want to accomplish a lot
of the things that have been great
throughout this industrial revolution we
needed central
order or central kind of um coordination
of resources both financial capital
human capital
and also plans and and execution
and so these centralized entities end up
being built into hierarchical structures
there's somebody or a group of people at
the top and they basically are able to
um you know kind of decree down to the
rest of the company here's what we're
gonna work on here's what we're not
gonna work on and that's basically what
the corporate world is as we know it
right um jeff bezos got immense leverage
with amazon because he had human capital
and financial capital and a hierarchical
centralized structure that's actually a
good thing we would not have amazon
without it right amazon's actually been
a huge net positive for the world in my
opinion
name every other tech company same thing
right they're all centralized
hierarchical structures
now what we're getting though is a
technology change that allows for the
coordination of resources
that doesn't require the hierarchical
structure
instead of one person making decisions
what if everyone gets to make the
decision
well it depends what are you trying to
accomplish sometimes decentralization's
better sometimes it's not right there's
a very strong argument that in certain
situations centralization's the the more
efficient better kind of structure but
now that we have decentralization with
this technology
what you do is you can actually build
much larger networks
so
the difference between a hierarchical
structure of let's say amazon that is
trying to build out all of these super
kind of moonshot type ideas aws and
logistics and all of this
compared to maybe something where a
network ends up making much more sense
right so take bitcoin
well there's miners there's node
operators and there's holders those are
three different groups
and the miners are financially
incentivized to
run computers to run the network it's
pretty interesting there's a financial
incentive for people all around the
world there's literally millions and
millions of machines around the world
that are all doing this it's the
strongest computing network in the world
why
because every 10 minutes or so there is
a certain amount of bitcoin 6.25 bitcoin
that ends up actually being given out to
folks um that are running that network
to the people who are running the uh the
bitcoin blockchain
and so that financial incentive right
now ends up being somewhere 45 50
million dollars a day in bitcoin ends up
being given out to these people based on
the how much computing power and some
nuance there so
when you create a network that doesn't
have a hierarchical structure there's no
ceo of bitcoin there's no marketing
department there was no uh here's the
master plan okay tom you go build the
site in washington state and you know
larry you go build the site and uh china
and mark you go build the one in texas
there's none of that it was purely tom
says you know what i want my piece of
the bitcoin block reward every day and
we know what i'm gonna do i'm gonna go
figure it out i'm gonna go get energy or
power i'm gonna buy these machines and
then i'm gonna run this and i'm going to
have a profitable business
and so rather than
rely on that hierarchical structure by
creating a network we created the
strongest computer network in the world
in 12 years and is it strong because you
can't break it there's no person there's
no point of failure i can't go hack
timmy
um i can't can you know
seduce somebody and like you know get
their keys to something and is that what
makes it strong just that it is there
would be so many people to go after i
think of strength of a network in two
ways specifically around let's say
bitcoin um one is just a pure
qualitative uh metric um or i'm sorry a
qualitative metric and then one is a
quantitative one the quantitative one is
really easy how much hash rate or how
much computing power is actually running
this network and that's can stop a brute
force attack or anything like that and
so um the bitcoin network has more
computing power running it than anything
else right it's way bigger than any of
the largest computers in the world etc
so that's a quantitative metric the
qualitative one i think more is
structurally right so
from a structure standpoint if you think
about
other technology networks that have been
shut down right napster is always like a
really easy one
peer-to-peer file sharing
was a great idea people were doing it
obviously
the music industry didn't like it how do
they shut it down well you can basically
go and find out who's the ceo of the
business where is the business where are
their servers all this type stuff and
you can go ahead and you can shut it
down
and so when you remove that hierarchical
structure and you now have a
decentralized structure the strength
comes from there is no single point of
failure so you have a quantitative
metric and you have a qualitative uh
kind of framework the qualitative one is
the design of bitcoin itself and that
network the quantitative one is just the
financial incentives or the economic
incentives at play has drastically
outperformed any hierarchical effort and
so when you start to look at that you
say okay that's interesting where else
is decentralization important and what
you find is and i think the industry is
learning this right now is in some cases
decentralization's really really
important right we don't want anyone to
control this we don't want anyone to be
able to create more of it we don't want
anyone to be able to censor it or shut
it down or whatever very important but
there's also a lot of people who said oh
we're gonna take those same ideas we're
gonna apply it to traditional technology
database technology or whatever and what
you find is in many cases on that front
people the end user doesn't care if it's
decentralized or not right they say hey
look i need something that's fast it's
cheap it's easy to use whatever
and so i think uh we're watching this in
real time play out um some things that
are decentralized don't need to be some
things that are centralized need to be
decentralized right so i think that's
ultimately one of the most interesting
parts of this industry moving forward is
just
what ends up getting decentralized and
what is actually better off being
centralized
and the market's going to decide right
like one of the things i think through
my career from an investing standpoint
is when you're a little bit younger and
you're just starting out you want to be
very much of a
i call like a market predictor right i
saw a b and c and so that means d e and
f is going to happen
maybe
right almost like the younger the more
naive the more arrogant you are like the
more you have confidence that that's
going to happen
as i've gotten older and just gotten
more experiences i don't want to be a
market predictor i'll be a market
observer just tell me what the market's
doing and then i want to go wants to
react fast it react fast but also what
you can see is um the market is the
ultimate referee right is bitcoin
valuable
i have a personal opinion you have
personal opinions so does you know
millions of other people
no one's individual opinion matters
i could talk to somebody all day long
and they could tell me bitcoin's not
valuable
the best retort to that is
it's a trillion dollar asset that has
tens of millions of people around the
world holding it and it does more
transaction volume than some of the card
networks sure maybe it's not valuable
right but like probably yeah but the
market has determined that that is
valuable and you just work your way
through the assets and what you find is
asset after asset that some group of
people think is invaluable well the
market's decided it has value now you
could argue that the market is wrong or
mispricing it or whatever and there's
arbitrage opportunities et cetera but
ultimately i think that um we're really
bad at predicting the future and so the
more that you can be a market observer
rather than a market predictor
you start to just understand uh crazy
stuff happens i want to really
differentiate between the two so if i'm
a market predictor i'm trying to say
because of abc then
um d e and f are going to happen
as a market observer i'm just saying d
is happening right now and so therefore
i know what to do in this moment based
on the fact that d is happening and if
you know q starts happening then i'm
going to go and adjust my strategy based
on q i'll give you a perfect example so
i do a lot of early stage investing
right and when i'm looking at early
stage opportunities there's two
different types of investors
some investors look at a business and
they say okay you want to build you know
a a company that builds some kind of
widget
i think
that widget market is going to grow
bigger i think that you should do a b
and c i think right and they come at it
very much from uh here is how i see this
happening and therefore i'm going to
make my investment decision on whether
your plans line up with how i think the
world is going to move in the future
that is a market predictor you're
predicating the investment decision on
the prediction of what you think is
going to happen in the future
and i did a lot of that early on some of
them work some did
over time what i became as a market
observer
is this person intelligent do they know
how to solve problems are they a clear
thinker do they think from first
principles
do they have traction in what they're
building regardless of whether i think
it's a thing or not right
there's a lot of people using it and so
what you start to do is you start to
become more of an observer and it it's
um it grounds you much more in like
humility from an investing standpoint of
saying i don't know what's going to
happen in the future it could be bullish
could be bearish could be somewhere in
between
but what i do want to see is i want to
see the trends things that are in motion
stay in motion and so if there's tons
and tons of users flocking to something
who cares what my opinion of the future
is right there's plenty of companies
that i think were really stupid
like imagine when somebody came in and
said hey
we're going to create a company and we
have air mattresses in our kitchen and
people are paying us to stay there and
we think everyone in the world can have
an air mattress in their kitchen
a lot of people are like that sounds
insane like that's never going to happen
because what are they doing they're
being a market predictor
but also along with that pitch was by
the way there was a conference this
weekend and at that conference we had
six people you know whatever pay for pay
us to do it and so people are doing it
if you're more from a market observer oh
that's interesting can did you do it
another weekend right the questions you
ask are different it's less about
where's the world going and it's more
about show me
that the
uh the observations that i have
available to me today that this is
working or that there's something here
yeah in the nft market you see that in a
big way do you mess around with nfts at
all i uh
was very very early to nfts um and uh
it's not very popular uh in some sectors
of this industry specifically with
bitcoin maximals etc and it's why i make
such a a serious delineation between
monetary maximalism and then like the
technology competition
but in
may of 2020
or so um i started to
hear about it look at it it was
interesting to me etc
and the more that i dug into it i
realized i was like this is the same
argument as to bitcoin versus gold right
the digital version of something is
always bigger than the analog version
right so the physical version is that
just your gut says or is there
name one asset that you can think of
where the physical version is not bigger
than the digital version i can't and you
have just put words to something that i
feel
but have never had words that feels so
true to me that's why i'm so hyped about
bitcoin and ethereum and nfts is like
dude
the my brain switched over to digital so
fast on artwork i can't tell you so
there was actually i found myself
somebody wanted to um
send me something and they were like oh
you know i want to send you i forget
what it was a painting or something like
that and i in my heart was like oh man
if it was an nft i would [__] love it
but i'm like the physical thing thank
you that's so sweet oh my god so kind
but you know go ahead and keep it it's
weird how fast that happened the the
thing um
if you just go down the line so the easy
examples are shopping you know all that
type of stuff taxis
uber the reason why most investors
missed uber as an investment opportunity
is they compared uber to the total
addressable market of the taxi industry
well that was actually the wrong
analysis that's really interesting
because the digital version of taxis
ended up actually not owning any cars
and it was a market expanding technology
because it didn't just eat taxis it
didn't just eat black cars there are
millions
of people in the united states who are
young who don't own a car and they uber
everywhere how many people in manhattan
own a car
well most of the young people they just
uber everywhere or they use public
transportation right and so what ends up
happening is the
opportunity or the addressable market
expanded drastically
with a digital version of the analog
if you look at gold gold market caps
about 10 trillion bitcoin today is 1
trillion
i fully believe that bitcoin is not only
going to drastically eclipse gold's
market cap but it'll be a market
expanding technology if you ask me right
now how to go buy gold i couldn't tell
you agreed i'd have to call a broker or
go on a website or you know have to
figure it out i don't know how to do
that
myself and most digital natives know
exactly how to buy bitcoin
and so
you look at that now bring it to art
the art market you know depending on how
you count or whatever trillion dollars
or less right
the digital art market you just said it
open seeded three billion dollars in
transaction volume
in a single month
and so why is
bitcoin
better as a global store value than gold
why is the digital version better than
the analog well one
there is a digital component to it
meaning that anyone in the world with an
internet connection can sign in and
immediately start to transact in it so
there's an accessibility advantage
two is there's fractionalization i don't
have to buy a full bitcoin at 45 50 000
i can buy a piece of a bitcoin
uh three is that i can carry it around
really simply on my phone right or on my
laptop rather than lugging around
physical goals there's a portability
advantage to it
and then you start to look at it from
a storage cost etc right there's a whole
bunch of advantages digital version
versus the physical version
what happens with the digital art it's
the same thing
more accessible more divisible more
portable all this type of stuff and so
if we're gonna go and move our lives
into this like metaverse digital world
whatever you know is the the new way to
describe it
why would we leave
the assets we care about in the analog
world no we're going to bring them into
the digital world too all right i'm
going to try to touch on something
ephemeral to just drive this point home
have you ever looked at a vv vault
vv vault no okay this is so crazy so
vivi is a collectibles company that's
partnered with like dc marvel
but their their nfts look like actual
collectibles so it looks like a toy it
looks like a statue like it it's they're
going out of their way to sort of
literally just digitize the collectibles
industry
but their brilliant move and i'm still
dazzled by this is that they gave their
users the ability to create these it
they've made it right now i'm sure
future iterations won't but it looks
like a vault so you're going through a
vault door and then you're on the inside
but it's just a virtual space for you to
put display all the things you've
collected
the level of creativity that people show
in placing their items is insane so i'll
give you one example
the
the way that they have programmed this
space so one of the collectibles you can
buy is the delorean from back to the
future
and one guy put it upside down and on
the roof so it's actually outside the
vault but it plays an animation in the
loop of the flux capacitor turning on
which has all this electricity right if
you remember the movie all the
electricity sparks and then it
disappears so it does that animation so
as you walk through this guy's vault
every 30 seconds whatever all this
electricity just runs around the ceiling
because he's placed his collectible and
i was like oh my god
if i have the physical thing you one you
have to come into my house to see the
physical collectible
b it's not going to have electricity
sparking everywhere it's going to zap
some kid walking by so not only now am i
only bridled by my imagination but
anyone anywhere can come and see this
and so now as a social creature that
wants to connect with my community
and i'm given these virtual tools i
don't need to be wealthy right you no
longer need a big crazy house to display
all of this art
you can create this virtual thing put
all your stuff in a way that only you
have done it takes time right you talk
about money is this equation to time so
we know we value time so when i see
somebody who spent their time creating
something like this i'm just like oh my
god like this is so much cooler than
what collectibles have ever been ever
before in history and so i start
thinking about all right now you're
gonna have companies that spring up that
are making virtual galleries where the
gallery itself is like this crazy
physics-defying piece of art you're not
just walking through a mimicry of a
traditional gallery you're on the
[__] moon you're in outer space
you're inside the body whatever you want
like it is
the creativity that the digital realm
unleashes because you you no longer have
to obey the laws of physics
it's just oh my god
i think there's an element of like you
don't have to obey the laws of physics
you also don't have to ask permission
of anybody
right so you know um if you go and you
look at an art gallery in manhattan for
example
how many people really got an
opportunity to design the art gallery
well they're usually people who have
some sort of pedigree they got trained
somewhere right there's like all these
like hurdles to get in and so it ends up
being a lot of the same people who all
know each other and they're the ones who
do it
on the internet imagine if you held a
global competition for whoever could
create the best art gallery right and
there's like a prize for it
you'd get some really really cool stuff
because there was no
barriers to become the person who could
do that
that's all this is is this now just
saying but you don't have to come do it
in manhattan like just do it on the
internet and i think that um
you know the best analogy i have for
this is think of twitter if i said to
you tom you know what you're gonna do
every day you're gonna go hang out in
this virtual reality
square you're gonna talk to random
strangers you'd be like dude that sounds
like cool to like test one time but like
i got things to do
but what do you do you go through the
portal which is your computer or your
phone and you go and you hang out in a
digital
square
and you talk to strangers
like that is in some weird way a version
of virtual reality right i tweeted
recently i said we live in virtual
reality already
it doesn't look like the thing that you
put you know the oculus headset on and
you walk around you can touch and feel
things and like like that's like level
you know two three four five of virtual
reality
but twitter
created virtual reality for people and
you can go there and you know hey every
day we all come here and meet up again
right and you keep going and then what
am i basically doing i'm basically
walking around the square and i'm saying
okay tom's talking about this this
person talking about this this person
about this and i have a choice do i want
to button the conversation do i want to
reply do i want to quote tweet do you
want to say hey tom just said whatever
and i go to tell my friends i have to
retweet button like like you start to
think through this and it's like
yeah this is all going to happen how
quickly does that happen up for debate
what technologies is it built on up for
debate
how
how should an investor invest up for
debate how should you as a market
participant who's not an investor wants
to be a user how should you use this
stuff up for debate
but i think that
one of the trends that every great
investor has figured out or one of the
activities
is just find that kind of uh direction
that the world is moving as be an
observer understand the world's moving
this way and then go and say okay well
what are people using to your point
about observing it to not judge it so
one of the things the nft market has
taught me is that
in fact i wrote my rules they were
tongue-in-cheek when i wrote them but i
think i should publish them
is that
everything you think is cool is gonna go
to zero and everything that you think is
dumb is gonna moon
and i've just seen that play out over
and over and over again it's really hard
to predict what other people are gonna
think is cool because it's really a
moment is created energy is orchestrated
somehow through this
it's not an invisible hand because there
are some people that are really good at
it but they can get the energy moving
towards a project for whatever reason
like i don't know if you paid attention
what happened with loot
so um the guy that i consider my king of
alpha david
um he
sent me a tweet like i was about to go
to bed and he was like hey tom this
thing called lou just popping off look
at it i looked at it and i'm like this
is white words on black a black
background this doesn't make any sense
and i was like but i know this industry
and if people believe that this is like
new fresh exciting that at least for a
moment there's going to be this influx
of attention now that moment could be 10
years that moment could be 10 minutes i
have no idea but i'm getting better and
better at sort of arbitraging some of
these things so i bought two of them and
then a couple days later if you owned
them you got an airdrop of
basically their token
and i didn't even know about the airdrop
and the same guy david was like hey tom
because you bought two you've been
airdropped this stuff you actually have
to go pull it out of the contract
directly and so i'll show you how to do
it so here you go into ether scan and
this is how you do it
and i got it and i got my two bags of
gold
and
as of that day
that thing so i bought the ones that i
bought i think i bought it i can't
remember if it's 1.9
eth for the original loots
or 0.9 but it was in there somewhere and
at the time i got the gold which
remember i didn't even know existed i
was already making money hand over fists
just on the actual squares that i bought
and
the bags of um their coin that my friend
had to tell me were there i went and
sold one of the two
for 50 000
and i was like i imagine if a friend was
like hey dude i know you don't know but
in your bread box in the back cupboard a
guy just left you 50 grand you'd be like
what just happened
it was so
surreal and i was just like okay
don't think about things
think about the nature of things and i
was like this is telling me something
about the nature of humans of creative
energy of attention and how it can be
swayed about enthusiasm and how it it
moves sort of restlessly it never lands
on one thing and stays and so there's
these really predictable curves that
these projects go through and i'm like
hold on
if you do your you know
ten thousand twenty thousand thirty
thousand hours of research and you'd
like really figure this game out
obviously never invest a single dime
over what you're prepared to lose
because nfts are the single highest risk
investment i've ever seen humanity come
up with i want to make that really
[__] clear
but it is
so interesting to see how it captures
that same part of the psyche around
sports betting
how we're all locked up because of
what's going on with kovid like there's
all these factors that have come into
play and just that kryptos taking off
and nfts have answered the question of
whether there's a real thing there and
whether people will value them but once
i stopped judging the market and just
started saying this is happening
whether i think it should or not whether
i think white text on a black background
should be cool or not
it is and it's capturing energy
and
dude it wasn't long ago that i made 50
a year
so i was like this is so crazy and this
comes back to like my obsession people
need to do their own research i cannot
predict the future you cannot predict
the future who knows this could all go
to nothing tomorrow
that does not seem likely and given
what's going on today the nature of the
technology right understand it think
from first principles and it becomes far
easier to do novel things but just
looking at what's going on i i
legitimately want to with all the
caveats of you have to be so careful you
cannot go blindly into this
but i can think of few things that are
worth people's time and energy to
understand more than the blockchain and
that if this were a baseball game we are
still in the locker room getting ready
to come out onto the field
it's like because i mean that from a
technology standpoint like even forget
just that you could buy bitcoin or
ethereum or whatever today and it will
go up in value
what's going to be built on the back of
the technology will create a world that
will be as unrecognizable as a
post-internet world would have been to
me in you know 93 before i'd even heard
of email to now i mean that's utterly
just it's a transformation that i could
never have predicted
it's going to be the same thing but this
one's happening in full view because we
already have the internet so it's
already you and i are talking right now
to you know hopefully millions of people
and then on top of that
it's
we've all seen it happen before so you
can say hey guys remember mobile phones
hey guys remember the internet this is a
big one like that
and so
i think this is going to be
i'm going to make a statement and you're
going to say whether i'm a fool or not i
think this will be the biggest wealth
transfer ever that we've ever seen like
robber baron
moment type wealth transfer but it it's
not going to go to a really really small
number of people it's going to go to
whoever the [__] takes the time to learn
about this and go there's some percent
percentage of my daily income doesn't
like it it will go to people who don't
even think in net worth terms yet
because this is as raoul paul said this
is the first time in human history where
the average person has been able to
front run the institutions so this is a
chance for people to get ten dollars
every paycheck whatever but like to get
in and now whether it just becomes sort
of wealth redistributed because so many
like the older and more establish your
wealth the less likely you are to move
on this quickly
well you got to think too um
from an investing standpoint you've got
to ask yourself like who are you right
like who what type of investor do you
want to be
there are some investors who are the
most risk-averse people in the world
they say i don't want to take any risk
i'm already wealthy in many cases i want
to protect i'm in capital preservation
mode there's a lot of people who say no
i'm in capital accumulation mode right
is i want to go make money i need to
make money um and what you need to seek
out then in most cases is asymmetry now
that doesn't mean that you shouldn't do
i have these like five principles right
of from a personal investing standpoint
you need to spend less than you make
like kind of a core principle right kind
of get out of debt if you're in debt uh
the third thing is that you have to get
out of cash and you have to invest in
assets doesn't really matter what assets
as much more so as the action of
investing you got to be
super super super patient right and you
got to be disciplined that's it and if
you do that for long periods of time
like you will make money and the reason
is because the currency underlying at
all is going to be devalued so all of
these asset prices continue to go up
stock market every single day it seems
like it hits a new all-time high frank
just continues to go up and up and up
but that's if you're a super risk a
person you say hey i'm just going to buy
a low cost index fund s p 500 whatever
there are some people who want to take
more risk and they want to look for more
asymmetry but i think that the nft stuff
etc is fascinating because
there is a level of wealth that is being
uh created
but it's not being exchanged and so this
is something that i think a lot of
people when they think about oh there
was um you know three billion dollars
that was put through a system or that
person is worth a billion dollars and
they made it in crypto in many cases
what happened is not that somebody gave
a billion dollars of fiat currency and
received a billion dollars worth of
digital tokens
instead what happened is somebody
created it out of thin air
and so now all of a sudden you have all
these tokens that are
worth a penny
and they start trading and one trades at
two pennies
unless you know now that
market cap of the asset is now two x
right it's no different than companies
so for example when jeff bezos starts
amazon right he says hey my company is
worth x dollars you can buy shares at
you know why price okay as the company
accrues value based on all these
valuation metrics that people have
eventually
the company's worth you know a trillion
dollars
and
you're like well
did a trillion dollars get paid to you
no i don't think amazon's ever made a
trillion dollars in cash but the equity
value which has accrued value over time
ends up being a really big opportunity
and so
it's fascinating for me to watch people
like you know take a jz as kind of the
quintessential example
you can see over the 20 30 year period
him wake up to and understand the power
of owning equity that's something that
was created out of thin air that accrues
value based on a certain number of
valuation metrics and if you're the one
holding the asset you can actually
drastically increase your personal net
worth and the value um and cash etc that
you have
a lot of that's happening here as well
right is somebody's buying something you
bought the the loot um which is you know
kind of this ability to play this game
or participate in this uh uh community
and as more and more people wanted to
participate it became more valuable
and so
it's no different than you buying a
piece of real estate more people want
the real estate so the value goes up now
you're buying this asset and the value
goes up as more people want it
owning equity
ends up being the greatest way to create
personal wealth
whether you're owning a cash flowing
business whether you're owning the
equity of a payment system like bitcoin
by holding the actual asset itself and
having financial exposure to it you're
owning the equity of real estate of a
community with nfts etc it's all the
same investment mechanism
now which ones are crew value which ones
don't why should they accrue value etc
if you are in a market predictor
you know kind of seat sure you can
speculate based on what you think can
happen what you think is not going to
happen if you're the market observer
seat you simply are saying look the loot
game i wasn't really into those types of
computer games et cetera as a kid my
brothers and i were all playing madden
and you know basically throwing the n64
controller at each other you know
halfway through the game right before
somebody 21 to each other right
so to me like that's outside of my
intellectual curiosity but as a market
observer hell yeah that's valuable right
there's a ton of people who want to play
this there's a ton of people who are
running into it and so do i know if the
prices go up or down or what like all of
that is almost secondary and frankly i
don't think anyone can predict as much
as being able to observe the fact that
i don't know i think the github
repository of
loot in general was one of the most
positive uh or was one of the most
popular github repositories last week so
crazy on the entire internet
does that mean that it's going to be
worth tons of money no is that a pretty
good data point there's a lot of
developer activity yeah right are there
a lot of people who are talking about it
online if you go search on you know
twitter in the tech community a whole
lot of people talking about it again
we've seen things
tons of people talked about and ended up
going to zero right there's no no one
data point is the predictor but i think
if you sit in the market observer seat
and constantly remind yourself i do not
know the future but i am willing to
observe what's happening right now
you start to understand that uh there's
corners of the internet that think weird
things are valuable and so if you can
get out of the game of i see these
things right and i think i'm like that
is weird why would somebody buy words on
a black screen
i wouldn't buy it right so nobody must
want to buy it well no i'm an idiot if i
think that right because what ends up
happening is as an observer you have the
humility to understand there's pl
there's millions and millions and
millions of people on the internet that
want to do stuff i don't want to do okay
so you can choose to invest or not
invest whatever but but being aware of
and observing what's happening i think
is really important
and whether it's nfts whether it's games
whether it's something else you start to
just wrap your head around and say
man this technology is creating two
separate revolutions one is a monetary
revolution which is bitcoin what we've
talked about in terms of the fact that
nobody can debase this currency anyone
has access to it and has censorship
resistant payments and it has
sovereignty for those that hold it
that seems pretty valuable
trillion dollar market cap today how big
can it get
i
i don't know
but i think it'll be bigger 10 years
from now than it is today
okay i probably want to own some of that
right that's my personal decision the
second revolution is this idea of uh
kind of the digital realm or the the
automation that comes with all of this
and when you start to think about this
you said to yourself man there's a lot
of people who seem to want to do this
even if i think it's completely stupid
even if i think that it's literally the
worst idea in the world
how do you argue with the market
and so i think that you know there's
folks who
choose from like a maximalist standpoint
to focus only on bitcoin and frankly
that's where i tend to spend most of my
time because the monetary revolution is
much more intellectually stimulating for
me right i'm i'm intrigued by it it's
things i sit and think about all day and
spend time on but i got plenty of
friends who think that's the dumbest
thing in the world like who cares right
like look at this and pick your kind of
other area to focus on and so i think
that um it's really easy online to like
get caught up a lot in this idea of one
revolution is important and one's not or
vice versa
at the end of the day it's well who
who's asking the question
and what we're watching here is um every
industry is going to be impacted by this
technology yes
and so if you're into art you should
understand it because it's coming to art
right and likely with digital everything
music all this stuff
the um the thing
that is most fascinating to me about the
entire thing i've been doing this now
you know five almost six years
in the beginning all the legacy players
wanted nothing to do with this and a lot
of my time was focused on bitcoin
because that was really the only liquid
true asset they would even have a
conversation about
all the billionaire investors not
interested all the big wall street banks
not interested all the um you know
institutional investors not interested
almost to a t
the best in the world
have changed their mind
they continued to get new information
and they changed their mind
and now some of them are the largest
investors in the industry
and so there's a level of intelligence
and intellectual humility it takes to
get new information and change your mind
the people who haven't changed their
mind for the most part not everyone but
for the most part
historically they haven't been very good
investors that's interesting and so they
just have this rigid
way of thinking
and regardless of the technology
evolution regardless of what happens in
the market they just have that rigid you
know kind of adherence to a framework
and so to me like that's been one of the
biggest investing lessons is
i talked to that guy
he wasn't like he gave me a 12-minute
meeting he literally
nice to meet you i basically took the
meeting because somebody else i know
told me i should meet with you but like
i gotta go to lunch right
to now you're a huge investor in this
stuff and you're out and you're talking
about it and you're explaining it to
people et cetera
into you what happened
oh
you're not religious about your ideas
you're not religious about uh having to
be right
instead he said no it reached a point
where it was very obvious that the
macroeconomic environment was going to
continue to be crazy people were going
to want to hold this asset i understood
how it worked and so i changed my mind
by the way i've been an idiot if i
didn't change my mind yeah the only way
to live like that to me is my core life
thesis is like i'm not interested in
being right i'm interested in
identifying the right answer faster than
anybody else yeah building your
self-esteem around being right is a trap
and most people fall into it but that's
really interesting it's also um
if you think about uh
trends and like identifying the right
answer a lot of times if you were to go
ask venture capitals have to a lot of
times understand technology innovation
they also have to kind of extrapolate
out really really kind of uh parabolic
type growth etc
and the best way to do that is actually
not to think about it right
it's not to say you know what
airbnb is going to go from
no
locations
to globally dominant in five years
it's impossible to see that world the
guy has air mattresses on his kitchen
how is he gonna go become a globally
dominate company
uber has black cars driving around san
francisco how are they gonna go
literally convince people not to buy
cars and instead use their service
that sounds insane at the time
but what you can do is you can basically
identify people
who
have some future vision of the world
that
is different
and if successful will end up actually
being incredibly valuable so kind of
different and right right
and what you find is that's why venture
capitalists make so many bets
is because they're building a
probabilistic outcome
okay if i make 10 of these bets
four of them are actually gonna work the
four will pay for the six losers
and all i need to go do find is you know
ten crazy people who think that they can
change the world right now
sure not everyone invests that way but
what you start to realize is
rather than try to predict it yourself
finding the people who know some secret
or know some you know future vision of
the world that they're going to go build
and create ends up being a way easier
way to predict the future than actually
sitting there and like pontificating
about you know i think nfts are gonna be
whatever in january did anyone think nft
one nft platform would sell three
billion dollars worth no way no way
now one thing i know that you don't
predict the future but that i it's the
only thing that gives me hesitation so
you're whatever famously like 95 of your
liquid assets are in bitcoin um i'm way
way way way way way less than that but
my comfort it started with i'll just do
one percent and then i was like well
that felt good how about two and then
that was five and now it's like you know
i'm pacing ten so
it's about ten percent right now that's
what i'm pacing i'll be there probably
well i guess if we dip really hard then
i'll race to that
uh if we don't just keep dollar cost
averaging but i already sort of planted
seeds with my wife i might be
comfortable at 25
so uh
yeah that i've really sort of adjusted
my thinking on that but the one thing
that gives me pause is
you've talked about bitcoin is going to
become the global reserve currency i
don't think
that governments go down without a fight
yeah so
global reserve currency uh first of all
is like a term that everyone talks about
but
what is a global reserve currency right
um there's two ways to look at this one
is the legacy terminology of global
reserve currency which is the most
dominant military basically puts the uh
the currency you know in place and then
enforces that across the world the
dollar is pro you know pretty good way
to it to use that as an example
every economy has a reserve asset
the us economy is based on the u.s
geographic
players right people within the u.s
geography
and the reserve asset is the u.s dollar
if you go to mexico the mexican economy
has a reserve asset at the peso et
cetera and you go through the world this
is true
there's an economy though that has been
created it's actually the largest
economy in the world and it doesn't have
a reserve assets the internet the
digital economy does not care about
where you physically are geography does
not matter it's unhinged from the
geography
what's the reserve asset of the digital
economy
well
most people would say well i use dollars
right that seems to be one of the more
popular ones
but that's because we live in the
developed western world
people on the internet in india don't
use dollars
right
they use their local currency and you go
around the world and you see this
what happens if we all just used one
currency and all the units were the same
okay that'd be interesting
and so
the reason why i say that it is going to
be a global reserve currency is i
actually don't think it's nearly as
competitive with the fiat currencies as
people think it is
because
ultimately what happens is
the digital store of value i want to
protect my assets
and so what we're moving towards is a
multi-currency world right right now you
and i live in a single currency world
you get paid in dollars saving dollars
invest in dollars and then you also pay
taxes in dollars if you want to go to
somebody else's single currency world
mexico you have to convert your dollars
to pesos to operate within the mexican
uh economy for the most part
well when you make that conversion it's
actually very difficult
go to the bank and you try to withdraw
it's got to be large sums
or you go to like a currency exchanger
at the airport they rip you off right
like it sucks
what happens if all of a sudden the
friction and the cost of
transacting between currencies or
switching the switching cost goes to
zero and now i get paid in dollars
and with a click of a button i can
change my dollars into pesos or into
bitcoin or into a digital euro et cetera
well
now the technology is the exact same
the only difference the only competition
between the currencies is at the
monetary policy standpoint they're all
digital currencies so the digital dollar
digital peso and bitcoin are literally
all the same technology wise in that
steady state
but there's competition at the top layer
at the moment i mean at the monetary
policy layer what is monetary policy
all fiat currencies have the same
monetary policy
on a
structure standpoint
inflationary currencies okay meaning
that there's constantly more printed of
it it's got a variable monetary policy
meaning that uh it constantly changes
sometimes they're expanding sometimes
they're contracting but the reason why
the dollar is guaranteed to lose value
is because they have to continue to
create more of it right same with the
peso same with the euro etc
so if you actually take all the fiat
currencies and you put them in a bucket
there is a non-consensus or a different
currency structure which is bitcoin for
example and so if it ends up being right
it's gonna be wildly valuable it's not
consensus then right
but two is
if i'm looking to store value from i'm
trying to save
i'm not gonna save in the
fiat structure regardless of the
currency doesn't matter dollars euros
yen whatever
i'm gonna put it into an asset where it
protects my purchasing power
and if the switching cost is zero i know
i can switch back and forth very easily
so you can see a world where my employer
pays me in dollars
it auto converts into bitcoin i set it
there and then i gotta pay my taxes in
dollars i convert back into dollars and
i pay
well i'm saving in bitcoin i'm storing
value in bitcoin what do people do
well historically maybe i had to buy
real estate to do that so my employer
paid me in dollars took the dollars i
converted it into real estate i sat
there and then all of a sudden i needed
money to pay my taxes i could sell the
real estate get it and pay it back now
that's a ridiculous
you know order of events if i'm simply
gonna use it as a saving mechanism to
then pay my taxes you know later this
year
because there's
cost there's time lapse et cetera
but there's no difference between doing
that with real estate or doing it with
bitcoin
it's just now all of a sudden i can do
it instantaneously i can do it with a
digital asset that protects my
purchasing power and the switching cost
is zero essentially
and so when we move to a multi-currency
world
actually in some crazy way
the fiat currencies may become more
valuable
and this is uh not everyone agrees with
this i'm going to say i'm so intrigued
it's like the restaurant problem right
if i put a restaurant on a intersection
it's the only restaurant it gets let's
say 10 people a day
if i put a restaurant across the street
many times people will say oh that's
competition now that first restaurant's
gonna suffer
if i put a third one there people say oh
my god that first one's screwed a fourth
one oh my god the first one is out of
business
in reality what happens is all the
studies show
when you build density at the
intersection
everyone actually gets more traffic
because that that becomes known as
restaurant intersection that's where all
the restaurants are yeah i'm hungry i
don't know let's just go down there
we'll figure something out and so
actually the first one benefits from
having the others move in there
there's two arguments when it comes to
bitcoin and the fiat currencies one is
that they're in direct competition with
each other bitcoin wins fiat currencies
lose game over right and in that
scenario governments absolutely do not
want this to happen the governments that
embrace the technology that ends up
being the winner first will drastically
outperform those that are last to adopt
it right
the second one is this argument of no
actually a multi-currency role all boats
rise together
now
you know i talked earlier about i don't
want to be a market predictor
what i find right now is as technologies
are being digitized it actually
increases the accessibility of them for
people around the world
so take that second example i'm in
venezuela the boulevard ends up getting
devalued away i know i gotta get out
really really hard for me to get dollars
i can try through the bank but there's
limitations i'm worried about
confiscation of by the government etc
the black market is really pricey in
terms of it cost me a lot to actually go
buy it and it can actually be physically
dangerous
so why do i want dollars well there's
safety in the dollar in my mind there's
stability there that's the best currency
my currency sucks this one's great let
me go buy this one
okay dollars are hard to get i'll get
gold well hard to find can be physically
dangerous could be confiscated etc
okay what can i do on the internet
if all of a sudden i think let's say
bitcoin's too volatile for me
i want dollars but the dollar isn't
digitized on these platforms but china
takes their currency and they create a
digital currency
it's better than nothing
so what do i do i buy the digital
currency of china
and it's just a pure accessibility thing
so i think ultimately the incentive is
that everything will be digitized right
you'll get digital dollars to your euro
yen etc and some of that will be because
people believe that there's some sort of
uh internal domestic advantage to it
but also some of it's going to be just
simply the game theory of we have to
digitize our currency so it's accessible
to people around the world and so we can
drive more adoption more value
but the second that everyone has digital
wallets
everything becomes a currency
right
how many people
say to themselves oh i own that piece of
real estate i need to sell it to get
dollars then go buy something
well what happens when i can just
take the real estate and buy directly
the asset i don't have to go to the
common unit of account of a dollar
all the technology is the same
the value just is different
and so you get this really weird world
where like i don't know what's gonna
happen in the future
but you can clearly articulate two or
three different versions
and
in every single one of those versions
bitcoin specifically is valuable
so bitcoin is valuable if it goes
head-to-head with the fiat currencies
bitcoin is valuable if the fiat
currencies benefit you know and all
currencies end up occurring more and
bitcoin is valuable if all of a sudden
every asset is a currency and you can
interchange them freely
so from my standpoint it was
actually the least risky thing i could
do personally was to buy bitcoin
and i always say that i sit at the
intersection of two very very different
worlds
when i talk to you know friends on wall
street or these large asset managers and
stuff they're like you are insane having
95 of your net worth in this thing
and i say
sure
but i think you're insane for having 95
of your net worth in dollars or in
dollar denominated assets right
so we see eye to eye on insanity it's
just two different assets
if i go talk to uh
particularly young people in crypto that
are on the edges of innovation and
really kind of pushing pushing the pace
of this new stuff
they're like dude
you are the least risk tolerant person
i've ever met like you just hold boomer
coin
right like bitcoin doesn't do anything
and so how can it be that the same asset
viewed by
the youngest most kind of
forward-thinking innovative people is
seen as
the most conservative
but by the oldest most successful is
seen as the most risky
it's actually probably where you want to
sit
right is because you're you're uh taking
the two worlds and you're kind of
meeting them in the middle
and so
when you ask
about like allocations and all stuff i
always ask you what are you optimizing
for
i basically built a venn diagram early
on and i said okay what is the thing
that i think is most likely to be here a
hundred years from now right my plan is
to hand bitcoin to my grandkids okay so
he said it needs to be around for a
hundred years the durability of it and
also what is the thing that has a very
attractive return compared to
traditional assets
bitcoins compounded at 200 annually for
a decade that's crazy pretty crazy right
so if it's durable and it has an
attractive return compared to
traditional assets
i'm gonna go get a lot of that
and if i denominate my net worth in it
and my life like my financial life in it
it actually changes psychologically
spending money because it's one thing if
i say hey you're going to go spend a
depreciating asset to buy a house or buy
a car or buy whatever might as well it's
going down to value anyway you're
financially incentivized to do it
right he's literally it's going to lose
value so you better get rid of it
if i say to you hey you're going to buy
something with an appreciating asset
that is likely to be worth more in the
future than it is today now so you think
yourself what am i buying
do i need it is it going to is it an
investment is going to be worth more
than what this is gonna be you start to
ask yourself a little some of the
questions you might not have otherwise
asked
and so it's it it's um one of these
things where like i basically just throw
my hands up and i said look
the world is changing at a rapid pace i
spend all day on this stuff and i can't
keep up um
it will look very different 25 years
from now than it does today
uh and how lucky are we
that we get to live here that we're
talking about it that we see the
opportunities
and you know what you and i will make a
bunch of investment decisions some of
them will work some of them won't
my guess is that by
picking the right industry that has a
massive tailwind behind it
we would have to be really really really
really stupid
and then make really really really
stupid decisions
we probably still will be okay
because you're simply it's like saying
oh i invested in the internet in the 90s
i mean you had to be a absolute idiot to
not somehow somewhere end up better off
after investing the internet than before
i think the same thing's true here so
you know you can make optimizations all
that but at the end of the day anyone
who's paying attention to this stuff i
think is gonna be fine
that is the perfect place to stop
boys and girls if you haven't already be
sure to subscribe follow this man
everywhere tell them where they can find
you uh just on twitter at apompliano or
search anthonypopliano on youtube there
you go you won't regret it and until
next time my friends be legendary take
care peace
i grew up in the world of what is known
as macro investing macro investing is
when you look at all the asset classes
everywhere around the world so bonds
equities commodities currencies
um credits all of these things and you
try and look for what is the best return
you can get
maybe that's in india maybe it's in
china maybe it's in the u.s